Art. 1579.  Notarial testament; testator unable to read
When a testator does not know how to read, or is physically impaired to the extent that he cannot read, whether or not he is able to sign his name, the procedure for execution of a notarial testament is as follows:
(1)  The written testament must be read aloud in the presence of the testator, the notary, and two competent witnesses.  The witnesses, and the notary if he is not the person who reads the testament aloud, must follow the reading on copies of the testament.  After the reading, the testator must declare or signify to them that he heard the reading, and that the instrument is his testament.  If he knows how, and is able to do so, the testator must sign his name at the end of the testament and on each other separate page of the instrument.
(2)  In the presence of the testator and each other, the notary and witnesses must sign the following declaration, or one substantially similar:  "This testament has been read aloud in our presence and in the presence of the testator, such reading having been followed on copies of the testament by the witnesses [, and the notary if he is not the person who reads it aloud,] and in our presence the testator declared or signified that he heard the reading, and that the instrument is his testament, and that he signed his name at the end of the testament and on each other separate page; and in the presence of the testator and each other, we have subscribed our names this ____day of ____, ______."
(3)  If the testator does not know how to sign his name or is unable to sign because of a physical infirmity, he must so declare or signify and then affix his mark, or cause it to be affixed, where his signature would otherwise be required; and if he is unable to affix his mark he may direct another person to assist him in affixing a mark or to sign his name in his place.  The other person may be one of the witnesses or the notary.  In this instance, the required declaration must be modified to recite in addition that the testator declared or signified that he did not know how to sign his name or was unable to do so because of a physical infirmity; and that he affixed, or caused to be affixed, his mark or name at the end of the testament and on each other separate page.
(4)  A person who may execute a testament authorized by either Article 1577 or 1578 may also execute a testament authorized by this Article.
Acts 1997, No. 1421, §1, eff. July 1, 1999.